--- 
title: Communication or lack of it
date: 27/05/2011
description: "Communication"

I don't consider myself to be a good developer yet, but slowly I'm getting there. I'm still on occassions struggling with your average **for loop** and so on.
What I do know is that communication is king. That together with teamwork and the ability to work with other people are what I believe the cornerstones in software development.
Do not misunderstand me for thinking that this is more important than being competent and good at what you do. This is about theese things coexisting. A person that hope to get somewhere
and succeed in a company need to posses theese things and not just only be good at coding. I'm aware that this don't come that naturally for all people. Being a team player and having the ability to work together with other people is something that some struggle with. 
This I know, but if you don't even seem to have the ambition nore will to strive for this, then you might as just work alone. Start your own company were you are free to do things your way. I would go so far as to say that theese people consume your energy. They are what some would say energy thieves. They have no interest in working together with other people.
They see only their own needs and have no way of "reading" their environment and people around them. The only people they seem to have the desire to work together with are the ones they look up to, and then it is just for selfish reasons.  

I know this might seems harsh and unfair of me, but I'm tired of theese people. They are seriously bringing me down. Maybe I'm to much of a soft person and naive. Never been a competitive person. I always were the one that just liked the idea of people getting along and working together.
This might not be the "best" thing for you if you wish to climb and make a career. Maybe you need to be able to walk over some corpses to get somewhere fast. Though this is not in my nature, and I firmly believe that choosing the other path is better in the long run.
I might not believe in karma, but I do believe that things tend to get back to you, both the good and the bad.

